---
layout: post
title:  "Exoline 0.8.0: Windows installer, portal and domain specs, transform, and a plugin framework"
date:   2014-06-09 14:12:30
---

The latest release of Exoline has some new features to make both casual users and power users even more productive on our platform.

- **Windows executable + installer**. If you run Windows and want a one step install process, there's now an installer for Windows. You don't even need to install Python. Just go here to download and run the installer: https://github.com/exosite/exoline/releases/tag/0.8.0
- *Better support for large reads.* Large reads now work seamlessly, without requiring that you tell Exoline that it is a large read (the --chunkhours option is no longer necessary, and also not supported, starting with Exoline 0.8.0). 
- *Spec for portals and domains.* The spec command is a way of specifying the way a device's data and scripts should be organized, allowing you to keep your devices in sync with that organization. This command is now extended to support validating and updating entire portals (--portal) and entire domains (--domain).
- *Transform.* During a product's development the format of time series data sometimes changes. The transform command lets developers apply a custom modification to each point in a dataport, by passing a snippet of Python that converts the value to what they want. It's quite handy. Look at "exo transform --help" to find out more. Note that this feature is currently in alpha, so consider the specifics subject to change, be careful about using it on data you can't afford to lose, and use the --cma while you're getting comfortable with it. :-)
- *Plug in framework.* New Exoline commands may now be developed as plugins, which lowers the barrier to add features to Exoline. Both `spec` and `transform` are plugins. The plugin framework also supports developing plugins separate from the Exoline code base, in case you don't feel like sharing. But please do share!

Thanks to Mike Tilstra (#2, #4, #5) and Andy Lee (#3) for designing and developing these fab new features. For a full list of what changed, look here. 
